Release 1.8.0 (#4121)
antrea-io/antrea: CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.8.md

# Changelog 1.8

## 1.8.0 - 2022-08-18

### Added

- Add ExternalNode feature which enables Antrea to manage the network connectivity and security on a Non-Kubernetes Node (like a virtual machine or a bare-metal server). ([#4110](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4110), [@wenyingd] [@mengdie-song] [@Anandkumar26])

>   * It introduces the ExternalNode CRD, each resource of which kind represents a virtual machine or bare-metal server and supports specifying which network interfaces on the external Node are expected to be protected with Antrea-native policies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * It introduces the ExternalNode CRD; each resource of this kind represents a virtual machine or bare-metal server and supports specifying
```

Author: done

  * An ExternalEntity resource will be created for each network interface specified in the ExternalNode resource. Antrea-native policies are applied to an external Node by using the ExternalEntity selector. 
  * Refer to [this document](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/release-1.8/docs/external-node.md) for more information about this feature.
- Add the following capabilities to Antrea-native policies:
  * Add Audit Logging support for K8s Networkpolicy. ([#4047](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4047), [@qiyueyao])

>   * Support applying Antrea ClusterNetworkPolicy to NodePort service for securing ingress traffic. ([#3997](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3997), [@GraysonWu])

Reviewer: s/NodePort service/NodePort services

Reviewer 2: service -> Services

Author: done

  * Introduce the Group CRD to logically group different network endpoints and reference them together in Antrea NetworkPolicy. ([#2438](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/2438), [@qiyueyao] [@abhiraut])

> - Release Antrea Helm chart archive for each Antrea release. ([#3935](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3935) [#3952](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3952), [@antoninbas] [@yanjunz97])

Reviewer: Release new Antrea Helm chart version for each Antrea release.

Author: done

  * Refer to [this document](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/release-1.8/docs/helm.md) for Helm installation method. ([#3989](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3989), [@antoninbas])
- Support TopologyAwareHints in AntreaProxy. ([#3515](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3515), [@hongliangl])

> - Add support for encap mode to the Multicast feature. ([#3947](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3947), [@wenyingd])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Add encap mode support to the Multicast feature. ([#3947](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3947), [@wenyingd])
```

Author: done

> - Support configurable tunnel port for encap mode. ([#4065](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4065), [@Jexf])

Author: done, "Geneve, VXLAN, or STT port number"

- Add Status field to the IPPool CRD: it is used to report usage information for the pool (total number of IPs in the pool and number of IPs that are currently assigned). ([#3072](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3072) [#4088](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4088), [@ksamoray] [@tnqn])

> - Support updating configuration at runtime for flow-aggregator via antctl or updating ConfigMap. ([#3642](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3642), [@yuntanghsu])

Reviewer: or by updating the ConfigMap

Author: done

- Add antctl commands to set up and delete Multi-cluster ClusterSet. ([#3992](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3992), [@hjiajing])
- Add [documentation](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/blob/release-1.8/docs/multicluster/antctl.md) to set up Multi-cluster ClusterSet with antctl. ([#4096](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4096), [@jianjuns])

### Changed

- Antrea now uses OpenFlow 1.5 to program OVS. ([#3770](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3770), [@wenyingd] [@ashish-varma])
- Rename Windows script Start.ps1 to Start-AntreaAgent.ps1, and rename Stop.ps1 to Stop-AntreaAgent.ps1. ([#3904](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3904), [@wenyingd])

> - Unify NodePortLocal behavior across Linux and Windows. Linux agents now support allocating different nodeports for different protocols when the podports are the same. ([#3936](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3936), [@XinShuYang])

Reviewer: now support allocating different Node ports for different protocols even when the Pod port number is the same

> - Unify NodePortLocal behavior across Linux and Windows. Linux agents now support allocating different nodeports for different protocols when the podports are the same. ([#3936](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3936), [@XinShuYang])

Author: done

> - Antrea IPAM now uses the name of the uplink interface to name the host internal port, the uplink interface will be renamed with a `~` suffix, e.g. `eth0~`. ([#3938](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3938), [@gran-vmv])

Author: done

> - Send Neighbor Advertisement messages after creating Pods in IPv6 cluster. ([#3998](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3998), [@gran-vmv])

Author: done

- Add columns of kubectl outputs for Multi-cluster types. ([#3923](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3923), [@jianjuns])

> - Add IP version and prefix length validation to IPPool CRD manifest. ([#3897](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3897), [@jianjuns])

Reviewer 2: I feel this one is too trivial to add (and it does not really change the API behavior but just the implementation).

Author: removed

- Add an output formatter "raw" to better display multi-line string responses for antctl. ([#3589](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3589), [@Atish-iaf])
- Add new ports to network requirement doc. ([#4063](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4063), [@luolanzone])
- Windows OVS installation script now installs required SSL library if missing. ([#4029](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4029), [@XinShuYang])

> - Upgrade whereabouts CNI to v0.5.4 and align secondary network IPAM with additional pluginArgs. ([#3987](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3987), [@arunvelayutham])

Reviewer: Upgrade whereabouts CNI to v0.5.4 and provide required pluginArgs when invoking the CNI binary.

Author: done

> - Remove Theia related files. ([#4048](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4048), [@dreamtalen])

Reviewer 2: We should change it to: "Remove Grafana flow collector files in the antrea repo (as they were moved to the theia repo)."

Author: done

<!-- 
- Use hostNetwork for Multi-cluster controller. ([#3965](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3965), [@luolanzone])
- Update ClusterClaim to v1alpha2. ([#3755](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3755), [@bangqipropel])

> - Update GatewayIPPrecedence to support "external/internal" option for the Multi-cluster feature. ([#3930](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3930), [@luolanzone])

Reviewer 2: option -> the "external/internal" options

Author: done

- Disable metrics API and change the health binding address port to 8080 for the Multi-cluster feature. ([#4101](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4101), [@luolanzone])
- Improve CRD validation for the Multi-cluster feature. ([#4062](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4062) [#4090](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4090), [@luolanzone])
- Cleanup ResourceExport if exported Service has no available Endpoints. ([#4056](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4056), [@luolanzone])

> - Add controller for leader cluster to garbage collect MemberClusterAnnounce for the Multi-cluster feature. ([#4054](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4054), [@hjiajing])

Reviewer 2: For this one, we can just append the PR to the next one.

Author: merged

> - Auto update ClusterSet and MemberClusterAnnounce in leader cluster. ([#3956](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3956), [@hjiajing])

Reviewer 2: We should change it to: "Auto create MemberClusterAnnounce and update ClusterSet in leader cluster for each member cluster."

Author: done

> - Update ClusterSet and ClusterClaim webhooks. ([#4043](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4043), [@luolanzone])

Reviewer 2: Just append the PR to "Improve CRD validation for the Multi-cluster feature."

Author: done

> - Remove MemberClusterAnnounce if ClusterSet deleted. ([#4026](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4026), [@luolanzone])

Reviewer 2: This PR can be appended to the "Auto create MemberClusterAnnounce and update ClusterSet in leader cluster for each member cluster."

Author: done

> - Refactor Common Area and remove leader election. ([#3964](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3964), [@luolanzone])

Reviewer 2: It does not impact user experience. So, probably remove it.

Reviewer 3: Yes, this can be removed.

Author: done

> - Add more MC Service info and ToC to Multi-cluster user guide. ([#3909](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3909), [@jianjuns])

Reviewer 2: Probably remove this one too.

Author: done

> - Revise Multi-cluster Gateway descriptions in user docs. ([#3899](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3899), [@jianjuns])

Reviewer 2: Remove it or append the PR to the next one.

Author: done

> - Update Multi-cluster architecture doc. ([#3638](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3638), [@luolanzone])

Reviewer 2: Probably change to "Add Multi-cluster Gateway descriptions in the Multi-cluster architecture document."

Author: done

-->

### Fixed

- Fix Antrea Octant plugin build. ([#4107](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4107), [@antoninbas])
- Fix Pod-to-external traffic on EKS in policyOnly mode. ([#3975](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3975), [@antoninbas])
- Fix problems caused by Node restart on EKS in policyOnly mode. ([#4012](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4012) [#4042](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4042), [@antoninbas])
- Fix race conditions in NetworkPolicyController. ([#4028](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4028), [@tnqn])
- Fix FlowExporter memory bloat when export process is dead. ([#3994](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3994), [@wsquan171])

> - Fix socket leak in IPv6 cluster. ([#4104](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4104), [@wenyingd])

Reviewer 2: an IPv6 cluster

Author: done

> - Fix clickhouse client race during batch commit. ([#4071](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4071), [@wsquan171])

Reviewer 2: ClickHouse

Author: done

- Retry when retrieval of PodCIDRs fails to avoid Agent crash due to the delay in allocating PodCIDRs for the Node. ([#3950](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3950), [@ksamoray])

> - Fix nil pointer issue when ClusterSet is deleted in leader. ([#3915](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3915), [@luolanzone])

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Fix nil pointer issue when ClusterSet is deleted in leader cluster. ([#3915](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3915), [@luolanzone])
```

Author: done

- Send Neighbor Advertisement messages after creating Pods in an IPv6 cluster. ([#3998](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3998), [@gran-vmv])
- Add an output formatter "raw" to better display multi-line string responses for antctl. ([#3589](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3589), [@Atish-iaf])
- Add new ports to network requirement doc. ([#4063](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4063), [@luolanzone])
- Windows OVS installation script now installs required SSL library if missing. ([#4029](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4029), [@XinShuYang])
- Upgrade whereabouts CNI to v0.5.4 and provide required pluginArgs when invoking the CNI binary. ([#3987](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3987), [@arunvelayutham])
- Remove Grafana flow collector files in the Antrea repo (as they were moved to the Theia repo). ([#4048](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4048), [@dreamtalen])
- Make the following changes to the Multi-cluster feature:

>   * Add columns of kubectl outputs for Multi-cluster types. ([#3923](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3923), [@jianjuns])

Reviewer 2: types -> custom resources

Author: done

  * Use hostNetwork for Multi-cluster controller. ([#3965](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3965), [@luolanzone])
  * Update ClusterClaim CRD to v1alpha2. ([#3755](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3755), [@bangqipropel])
  * Update GatewayIPPrecedence to support the "external/internal" options. ([#3930](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3930), [@luolanzone])
  * Disable metrics API and change the health binding address port to 8080. ([#4101](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4101), [@luolanzone])
  * Improve CRD validation. ([#4062](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4062) [#4090](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4090) [#4043](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4043), [@luolanzone])

>   * Cleanup ResourceExport if exported Service has no available Endpoints. ([#4056](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4056), [@luolanzone])

Reviewer 2: Cleanup -> Clean up

Reviewer 2: the exported Service

Reviewer 2: I feel this one can be viewed as a bug fix. @luolanzone ?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, it can be moved to 'Fixed'

Author: done

  * Update GatewayIPPrecedence to support the "external/internal" options. ([#3930](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3930), [@luolanzone])
  * Disable metrics API and change the health binding address port to 8080. ([#4101](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4101), [@luolanzone])
  * Improve CRD validation. ([#4062](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4062) [#4090](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4090) [#4043](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4043), [@luolanzone])
  * Auto create MemberClusterAnnounce and update ClusterSet in leader cluster for each member cluster. ([#3956](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3956) [#4054](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4054) [#4026](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4026), [@hjiajing] [@luolanzone])
  * Add Multi-cluster Gateway descriptions in the Multi-cluster architecture document. ([#3638](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3638) [#3899](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3899), [@luolanzone] [@jianjuns])

### Fixed

- Fix reconnection issue between Agent and OVS. ([#4091](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4091), [@wenyingd])

> - Fix the wrong DNAT IP used by AntreaProxy for serving NodePort traffic on Windows Nodes. ([#4103](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4103), [@XinShuYang])

Author: These two lines are newly added

# Changelog 1.8

## 1.8.0 - 2022-08-18

### Added

> - Add ExternalNode feature which enables Antrea to manage the network connectivity and security on a Non-Kubernetes Node (like a virtual machine or a bare-metal server). ([#4110](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4110), [@wenyingd] [@mengdie-song] [@Anandkumar26])

Author: done

- Add controller for leader cluster to garbage collect MemberClusterAnnounce for the Multi-cluster feature. ([#4054](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4054), [@hjiajing])
- Auto update ClusterSet and MemberClusterAnnounce in leader cluster. ([#3956](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3956), [@hjiajing])
- Update ClusterSet and ClusterClaim webhooks. ([#4043](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4043), [@luolanzone])
- Remove MemberClusterAnnounce if ClusterSet deleted. ([#4026](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/4026), [@luolanzone])
- Refactor Common Area and remove leader election. ([#3964](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3964), [@luolanzone])
- Add more MC Service info and ToC to Multi-cluster user guide. ([#3909](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3909), [@jianjuns])
- Revise Multi-cluster Gateway descriptions in user docs. ([#3899](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3899), [@jianjuns])
- Update Multi-cluster architecture doc. ([#3638](https://github.com/antrea-io/antrea/pull/3638), [@luolanzone])

> -->

Author: @jianjuns @luolanzone there are many changes made to multi-cluster in this release and I'm not sure if all of them are important to be listed in release note or some of them are refining each other. Could you help point the ones worth to be mentioned?
